Whenever it feels like we are making
progress towards a society that refuses
to fall victim to mindless consumption
or we are having honest conversations
about how young people can't afford
houses or have families, something like
Lebu comes around and destroys all faith
in humanity. Now, there's nothing wrong
with having a collection, music, trading
cards, comic books, coins, seashells,
whatever brings you joy, especially if
you are a child, but something about
Leubu feels off. It feels less like a
genuine collection and more of a hollow
trophy that people convince themselves
they need because someone with millions
of followers attached it to their purse.
It's the illusion of status packaged
into an evil looking doll that proves
how easily we're manipulated by major
corporations. But the crazy part is this
is not the first time something like
this has happened. And we're not even
embarrassed to admit that we keep
falling for it. And as if the amount of
money that people are spending on these
things isn't shocking enough, there is
real crime and violence breaking out
because of these dolls. And once you see
just how far people are willing to go
for Laboo, you'll understand why this
isn't just a dumb toy. It's a symptom of
something much worse. Before Laboos
became the world's latest big-time
collectible, they were just silly
sketches made by Casing Lung, the Hong
Kong born artist spent a lot of his
childhood in the Netherlands, becoming
infatuated with Nordic fairy tales,
especially the elves that were separated
as beings of the dark and of the light.
In 2015, Lung decided to make his
drawings into a short story for children
that he called the Monsters Trilogy,
telling a simple story about how a child
meets a playful tribe of fictional
female elves called the Laboo. That's
why I wanted to create something that
I've always known existed in my heart.
He said in an interview, "It's so
amazing that so many people love it."
Shortly after, he released a handful of
toys as an artistic trial run, and his
fans absolutely loved it. Many people
are surprised to find out that the Lubu
characters are supposed to be
kind-hearted creatures that are eager to
help, only for everything to erupt into
chaos following their various funny
antics. According to Lung, there are
over 100 different characters, each with
different backstories and relationships,
picking on or bullying each other in
innocent ways.
Boo.
But not everyone interprets Lubu seeming
kind-hearted or acting like friendly
bullies. For a lot of people, the teeth
and sinister smiles really freak them
out. I personally find them creepy and
have no desire to have any of them for
myself, family, or in my home. I don't
understand why everyone else thinks it's
cute when it's obviously creepy.
However, Labu did create a cult
following which caught the attention of
a Beijing based company called PopMart,
a company known for blind box packaging.
Popmar and Labubu developed a licensing
deal in 2019 and it changed the company
forever. Shortly after their partnership
was established, 55,000 boxes of the
Labu miniseries were sold out in 9
seconds on PopMart's online shop. And
that was over 6 years ago. So, the hype
surrounding these toys is not new. It's
just new to America. And while the
company does have some offerings where
you can actually choose which one you're
going to purchase, it primarily sells
blind box figurines now, making up more
than 70% of their business. Blind boxes
have been around for over 40 years in
East Asia. It's just that recently they
become America's largest obsession when
it comes to collectible toys. The
concept is incredibly simple for
businesses to get the consumer excited.
On the external packaging, the customer
can see a few different Laboos they
might get. Maybe you will get the pink
one. Maybe you will get the green one.
It even tells you the odds of getting
them, one in six. But the key is putting
the secret one there. It is grayed out,
so it is a total mystery. The secret one
has a 1 in 72 chance of being in your
purchase. And this could be one of the
main reasons that is causing younger
generations to collect more than they
ever have before. In a survey conducted
on 21st century collecting around the
world, we've discovered that the average
young adult spends almost $2,000 a year
on collectibles and that more and more
adults who aren't collectors are now
considering joining in on these trends.
As 90% of collectors have reported that
they participate in activities revolving
around these collections. People have
unpacking events, forums where they
share their collections, and sometimes
base their entire personality around
something like Laboo because it's a way
to connect with the outside world.
Popmar even opened their first theme
park called Popland where people can
come and celebrate their obsession with
these blind box products together. One
of the descriptions for the park reads,
"There are a few spots to play in the
same way as a typical theme park,
including an adventure playground filled
with climbing walls, nets, mazes, and
trampolines. Guests can also feel what
it's really like to live in the universe
through the augmented reality
immersions. And naturally, there are
also plenty of places to stop to snap
photos and videos for social media,
which helped make the Laboos the stars
they are today. When trying to get to
the bottom of what they call the
economics of Laboo, the Wall Street
Journal teamed up with psychologist
David Bosch to describe the impact blind
boxes and Laboo have on consumers. To
them, a lot of this has to do with the
label showing a secret prize and the
human compulsion to complete a set. One
of the things that the brand can do to
keep engagement to encourage consumers
to get a little more excitement out of
it is to label the box.
That specific range also creates a set.
It's well-known, wellsupported
phenomenon that most people under
certain conditions have a very strong
tendency to want to complete a set.
The concept of the blind box has become
so popular that thousands of YouTubers
have used it as a perceptually fun way
to entertain themselves and fans at the
same time. A good example would be how
Rhett and Link looked for extremely rare
toys in a segment of their show, Good
Mythical Morning.
Hold on. That was That's not That was
not it. This is
This one's special. Something
Hold on.
I got the one in.
You got the Robbie. You got the Robbie.
I can't believe. And Robbie came with a
drum.
What in the world? This is the most fun
I've had in years. You can see that
these blind box collectibles have an
interesting impact on people. Even if
they don't know what the toys are, why
they're interesting, special, or even if
they don't like the way that they look,
once people realize they are rare, they
start to attach value that isn't
actually there. Popar and Lubu's
business model mostly relies on this.
Nothing creates hype more than the
illusion of scarcity, the old classic.
Low supply, high demand. However, what
really started this Leubu craze was
another classic modern-day marketing
effort, paying a celebrity to endorse
the product. Because just a few months
ago, one of the world's most famous
K-pop stars, simply known as Lisa, sent
the world into a frenzy after she
confessed her love for Leubu. Lisa is a
Thai singer, rapper, dancer, and actress
who became the most followed K-pop idol
on Instagram. But she's been seriously
climbing the industry ladder since 2016
after joining the girl group Blackpink.
By now, K-pop isn't just a genre. It's a
full-blown global movement. Streaming
has skyrocketed with Spotify reporting a
staggering 362%
increase in K-pop streams worldwide over
the past 5 years. The top 100 K-pop
artists globally amassed a jaw-dropping
90 billion on demand streams with a 42%
growth year-over-year.
K-pop.
They've also developed some of the most
diehard cultlike fans on the internet.
Fans will create entire Twitter accounts
dedicated to a single idol, posting
hundreds of updates a day like unpaid
publicists. They'll organize mass
streaming parties where thousands of
people loop the same song 24/7 just to
inflate the chart numbers. Some even
spend hours translating interviews,
subtitling videos, and archiving every
second of a singer's life. To outsiders,
it looks obsessive. It looks like the
musician is at the center of a fan's
entire identity. And sometimes they will
attack anyone who criticizes them. But
to the fans, it's just loyalty to their
favorite star. And Lisa is arguably the
most famous of them all. Lisa's been in
ads for PlayStation 5, Louis Vuitton,
partnered with Bose, and has been a
global ambassador for Seline and MAC
cosmetics. So whenever she was asked to
share her secret obsession with Vanity
Fair's YouTube channel, anything she
chose to promote was going to turn into
pure gold. And in November of 2024, her
obsession of choice was PopMart
Collectibles. Hi, this is Lisa and this
is my secret obsession.
Wa. This is PopMart. It's a blind box,
so you don't know what's inside. Can I
Can I open it? Oh my. How do you get
this? This is really rare and hard to
find. Every collection they have like
the rare one. It's really hard to get.
We call them secret.
So, I always wish that I got secret.
One by one, Lisa unwrapped her blind
boxes, getting more and more excited
with every new figurine. But what got
everyone's attention were the large labu
she held in each arm. She described the
impact PopMart had on her friend and how
she couldn't stop herself from buying to
unlock new characters.
We call her labu. Okay. Oh my god, this
is so heavy.
One have a tail, one doesn't. So, this
Simomo and this is Labable. Yes,
I just got into PopMart like early this
year and I learned about this from my
one of my close friend in Thailand. And
when I went to Thailand, she was like,
"Oh, let's go to PopMart." And I was
like, "What is PopMart?" Like, "What?"
And she's like, "Oh, it's like, you
know, it's a sell toys and stuff. Like,
we should go and check." And then I went
with them and I was like, to be honest,
I was like, I was not into it at all. I
was like, "No, I'm not going to spend my
money on this." And then they came out.
And they were like, "Oh my god, like the
one that I want like it's sold out. It's
so hard to get." I was like, "Hm, is
that that hard to get?" And then they,
you know, showed me a bunch of stuff.
And as soon as I got them, I I go crazy.
It's like I spent all of my money.
What's really sad is that people
couldn't tell that this entire video is
just one large paid advertisement, but
it worked. After the seal of approval
from Lisa, PopMart's share price has
grown by almost 600% in just one year.
Somehow, this creepyl looking figurine
with confusing appeal has managed to
enter the hearts and minds of some of
the richest celebrities all around the
world. Korean artist V was seen walking
around with Labu in Soul. Rapper Central
C and Duual Lia have been seen with
theirs attached to bags. Kim Kardashian
posted an entire collection of them on
Instagram. And Madonna received a Laboo
birthday cake that is quite frankly one
of the most terrifying looking things on
the planet. And if celebrities aren't
the ones purchasing Laboos for
themselves, they're receiving them as
gifts from friends or family members.
Like how football legend David Beckham
posted an image of an apparently rare
find that he received from his daughter.
These celebrity advertisements have been
one of the key driving forces for
Leubu's current obsession. And I feel
like we must address the elephant in the
room about how this thing looks
incredibly evil. The sharp teeth, the
unsettling grin, the slightly furrowing
eyebrows. You can't help but notice this
toy has a slightly demonic feel. No
wonder why these Hollywood elites love
this toy. It represents them perfectly.
Celebrities have always mastered the art
of appearing glamorous enough to
worship, but approachable enough to
trust. They present themselves as icons
of beauty and innocence, while behind
the scenes, they're laughing, squeezing
every last dollar from the people who
idolize them. Leubu is just the perfect
prop for that illusion. A sinister
little mascot hiding in plain sight,
smiling as it drains your bank account.
across all different social media
platforms. Everyone in their mother has
an unboxing video for PopMart's new
favorite product, picking them up from
one of the company's 500 plus stores or
2,000 plus vending machines around the
world, eager to record themselves
unboxing one for the first or 300th
time.
Right, here we go. Y'all ready for this?
No.
[Music]
It's him. He's gorgeous.
Oh my god.
Can you believe
the doll seemingly is no longer about
whether you actually like the thing.
It's about proving you belong to the
exclusive club of people who have one.
The doll itself is meaningless, but the
association is priceless. People have
convinced themselves that having one
signals wealth and exclusivity. Even if
all they did was pay retail price for a
hunk of vinyl.
I am the owner of the famous 24 karat
gold leu.
And of course now many buyers are trying
to justify their purchase by saying
it'll be worth more someday. But if
history has taught us anything, it's
that collectibles rarely pay off like
people think they will. If you look back
at your childhood, odds are you
collected a little something. Maybe you
did it because you loved it, or maybe
you did it because everyone else was
doing it. But ultimately, it didn't
matter because it was just part of
growing up. For me, it was Pokemon
cards, WWE wrestlers, and Hot Wheels.
For others, it could have been
lunchboxes, Barbies, Beyblades, Rocks,
or literally anything else. But now,
collectors have become sellers.
Collections are no longer to express
their admiration for a passion or
interest, but to auction them off for
hundreds, thousands, or maybe even
millions of dollars. They see
collections as an investment, a way to
get rich quickly. In fact, 40% of
so-called collectors have openly
expressed how they intend to sell their
collections as they increase in value.
And of course, there are tons of
collections out there that have
increased in value over time. But laboos
are pretty new, and they're starting to
seem like more of a flash in the pan
trend that is reminiscent of Beanie
Babies. In the late 1990s, Beanie Babies
weren't just plush toys. They were
marketed as miniature fortunes in the
making. Tai Inc.'s strategy of
artificially restricting supply by
limiting retail orders and frequently
retiring certain models created a frenzy
where $5 stuffed animals were believed
to become the next gold rush. At the
peak of the mania, Beanie Babies
accounted for roughly 10% of eBay's
sales. We even saw full-grown adults
separating Beanie Babies during a
divorce. But all those people who
hoarded these rare toys were
disappointed to find out that they
weren't worth anything. It doesn't
matter that sellers listed them for
thousands of dollars online. Even still
to this day, you can find listings for
hundreds of thousands of dollars. But
things are only worth what someone is
actually willing to pay. And the harsh
reality was that nobody was buying. Not
even the most reckless spenders could be
convinced that these toys were rare or
valuable. So, people ended up selling
their Beanie Baby collections for
dollars, sometimes even cents, at garage
sales, which drove the value down even
further. What was once perceived as a
life-changing investment turned out to
be nothing more than overpriced clutter.
This is almost a fabric of American
culture at this point. You'll see shows
like Antiques Road Show, Pawn Stars, or
American Pickers, where people drag out
dusty items from their attic and pray
they've been sitting on a fortune
without even knowing it. The fantasy is
irresistible. The idea that some random
object you already own could secretly be
worth thousands. It's the modern-day
lottery ticket, except instead of
scratching numbers, you're banking on
nostalgia and rarity. But the
uncomfortable truth is that most
collectibles never hit the jackpot. For
every person who sells a first edition
comic for six figures, there are
millions more who are left with boxes of
junk that they swore would pay off one
day. Even though we're still at the peak
of the craze, occasionally you might see
videos online where a collector
recognizes that they might be spending a
little too much money on Lab Boooos. But
then you'll find investment gurus in
denial justifying the purchases in the
comments. They're actually worth more
than $120, so you got lucky. The scary
part is because of the Laboo popularity,
we're no longer just talking about
overpriced toys. We're talking about an
obsession that's bleeding into real life
in some very dark ways. Like how parents
will give their own children a choice
between hundreds of dollars or a Laboo
blind box only for the kid who receives
the money to almost break down in tears.
even though they end up buying a giant
Leaboo with the money they were given.
Now, to give the kids the benefit of the
doubt, they're kids. They don't know the
value of money. Of course, they want a
toy. However, there is no excuse for the
full grown men who will buy up as many
Lubu products as they can in order to
resell them to children and other
collectors for a much higher rate. And
they have the audacity to claim that
they're just passionate collectors. Um,
we got a lot of slack on Instagram, but
because of how much stock we have, oh,
you took all our stock we're collected
and we want a box and you're triple the
price and this and that. But
unfortunately, people don't understand
how a business model works, you know.
No, no, no, no, no. People perfectly
understand how the business model works.
You try and squat on as much inventory
as possible so there's scarcity and then
people have FOMO, so they want to make
sure they get it. So, they'll play
they'll pay the extra markup that you
just drive the price through the roof.
They came and shopped with me two weeks
ago. Bought labubas for the kids.
Someone stole her labuba from her bag.
You're kidding.
Yes. At school.
Tough.
And then I speak to my daughter.
Labuba robbery.
Capital punishment required.
Every generation.
We're stealing our kids,
bro. It's not normal. Not normal. So
yeah, I told her take all the boobs.
Unfortunately, it is very normal now.
It's super normal now. When grown adults
are exploiting children for profit, it's
only a matter of time before the
obsession spills into outright theft and
violence. In Southern California, a
small group of teenagers were suspected
of breaking into a warehouse and
stealing some inventory. When the Chino
SoCal police received a warrant to raid
the house the supposed thieves were
staying at, they weren't looking for
electronics or jewelry. They were
searching for about 14 boxes of Labubu
collectibles that the alleged thieves
were intending on reselling on the black
market. According to the report, the
cops recovered $30,000 worth of the
furry figurines, which usually retail
for about $30 each. In the same story,
the LA Times noted that the prices for
labu due to scarcity are reaching
all-time highs. The figurines are
usually sold at PopMart stores and
create a fervor whenever new ones are
released. A child-sized Laboo sold at
auction for $150,000,
according to media reports, and limited
edition monsters can retail for 150
bucks. But the criminality doesn't stop
at theft. There's now a growing scheme
where people will make counterfeit labu,
now named lfufus, that is becoming such
a large problem that people are making
instructional videos to help customers
inspect leoos like diamonds at a jewelry
store to avoid being scammed.
Every Laboo should have exactly nine
teeth. No more, no less. Like this one,
you can count. It has 10 teeth. Here are
a few other ways we can tell. If you
look at the original Laboo's complexion,
she has kind of a peachy pink tone to
her skin. Whereas, if you look at the
lfufu, this one in particular has a
paler complexion.
Popart told us you can also identify a
labubu by their high quality finishes,
such as the stitching and the paint job.
One obvious way you can tell a lfu from
a leubu is the spelling on the tags.
Lubu will say PopMart on the tag,
whereas this specific Lefufu says poor
mapped. I do like it when they're very
obvious.
Whether PopMart will admit it or not,
they're definitely enjoying all forms of
press, even if it's bad. All publicity
is good publicity in the world of
politics and sales because at the end of
the day we only have ourselves to blame.
Tim Dylan hilariously summarize the
depressing reality of the labu obsession
in America. The labubu is the perfect
symbol of uh the economy that we've
created and the cultural value system
that we have. It is a Chinese fentinol
stuffed voodoo doll that is being uh
exported to America. Little things like
the leubu become an important status
symbol for people who have given up on
owning a home, having a family, having a
job or a meaningful life. The adults,
their eyes get big. You've got one of
them. I want one of them. What? A
family? No. That demon doll, that troll,
that critter. One minute we're having
honest conversations about how young
people can't start a family, buy a
two-bedroom house, or even spend time
with those that we care about. And in
the next, we have hundreds of thousands
of people going into debt to buy a
trinket because their favorite celebrity
said it was cool. But as I stare more at
these evil looking little things, I
can't help but recognize that it's the
perfect reflection of a system that
thrives on manipulation, that
manufactures scarcity, that entices
children and adults to pour money into
something that has absolutely no value.
The doll looks demonic because in a way
it's a symbol of how dark consumer
culture has become. And the scariest
part isn't the doll itself. It's what it
says about us. That our society has to
be this desperate, this easily
hypnotized for something so empty to
become such a massive success.